Level 0:
How to connect to Over The Wire:
	ssh bandit<level number>@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220
	password is bandit<level number>
To end ssh connection, use logout command to be returned to my terminal.

Password for level 1 is in readme file (/home/bandit0/readme). I used the more command to read the file.
	ZjLjTmM6FvvyRnrb2rfNWOZOTa6ip5If

Important lesson: learn command to read a file.

Level 1:
Password for level 2 is in the - file (/home/bandit1/-). I used more to access the file.
	263JGJPfgU6LtdEvgfWU1XP5yac29mFx

Important lesson: learn how to open a strangely named file.

Level 2:
Password for level 3 is in a file called 'spaces in this filename' located in the home directory. I typed more spaces, then used tab auto complete to auto fill the escape characters (bc of the spaces).
	MNk8KNH3Usiio41PRUEoDFPqfxLPlSmx

Important lesson: learn how to open a file named in a different strange way.

Level 3:
I found the level 4 password by 'cd'-ing into the inhere directory, then used more and auto complete to read the ...Hiding-From-You file (which contains the password).
	2WmrDFRmJIq3IPxneAaMGhap0pFhF3NJ

Important lesson: learn to navigate directories

Level 4:
I used cd to get to the inhere directory. I used 'cat ./<filename>' to look through the files for the human readable one. The password is stored in the '-file07' file.
	4oQYVPkxZOOEOO5pTW81FB8j8lxXGUQw

Important lesson: learn how to efficiently look through many files for one that we want

Level 5:
Cd into inhere directory. Used find command to look for all files that are 1033 bytes in size: 'find ./ -size 1033c'. Meaning, look through all files in the current directory, and return the ones that are 1033 bytes in size (luckily only 1 file met this requirement, so I didn't need to look for ones that met all 3 requirements listed). The password is found in 'inhere/maybehere07/.file2'.
	HWasnPhtq9AVKe0dmk45nxy20cvUa6EG

Important lesson: learn how to efficiently find a file that we want (using find command)

Level 6:
I initially tried to use the following command: 'find / -user bandit7 -group bandit6 -size 33c'. (Look through all files, and return those with a given user, group, and size) This didn't work because it printed lots of permission denied errors. I looked up how to only return the non-permission denied items, and changed my command to the following: 'find / -user bandit7 -group bandit6 -size 33c 2>/dev/null' where 2>/dev/null suppresses the permission denied errors. The password is located in the following file: '/var/lib/dpkg/info/bandit7.password'. I used cat to view the contents.
	morbNTDkSW6jIlUc0ymOdMaLnOlFVAaj

Important lesson: learn how to efficiently find a file that we want (using find command)

Level 7:
I used grep to search for millionth. Grep prints the whole line where the match occurs, and luckily the password is on the same line as millionth. I used the following command: 'grep 'millionth' data.txt'.
	dfwvzFQi4mU0wfNbFOe9RoWskMLg7eEc

Important lesson: learn how to search within a file for a relevant section

Level 8:
I used sort and uniq with the -u (unique) option (found from the man page) to find the only line that occurs once: 'sort data.txt | uniq -u'. I needed to look up why 'uniq -u data.txt did not work and found that the input needs to be sorted, so I used sort, and piped the output into uniq.
	4CKMh1JI91bUIZZPXDqGanal4xvAg0JM

Important lesson: learn how to search within a file for a relevant section

Level 9:
I used the string command to find the more human readable sections of data.txt (strings data.txt). I scrolled up a bit from the bottom of the output, and saw lots of '=' characters. I got a bit lucky finding the password here. I could have done a little better by piping the string output into grep, and searching for equal signs: 'strings data.txt | grep =='. This output reduces the number of lines to look through a lot.
	FGUW5ilLVJrxX9kMYMmlN4MgbpfMiqey

Important lesson: learn how to search within a file for a relevant section

Level 10:
I used the base64 command to decode (-d) the text in data.txt: 'base64 -d data.txt'. The decoded text makes it obvious what the password is.
	dtR173fZKb0RRsDFSGsg2RWnpNVj3qRr

Important lesson: learn how to decode base64 encoded data

Level 11:
The linked helpful material on Rot13 has a section with a tr command to decrypt the text using the tr command: "tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m'". I then used cat and a pipe to input data.txt into the tr function: "cat data.txt | tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m'".
	7x16WNeHIi5YkIhWsfFIqoognUTyj9Q4

Important lesson: learn how to manipulate text 

Level 12:
I created a directory within tmp (mktemp -d) and copied (cp) data.txt into it. I reverted the hexdump using xdd and stored it in a file called compressed_data: 'xdd -r data.txt compressed_data'. This is still compressed, so I use xdd to show the hexadecimal to find the type of file compression used (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_file_signatures). It begins with 1F 8B, which is gzip, so we rename the output to have the .gz suffix (using mv) and use gzip to decompress: 'gzip -d compressed_data.gz'. The output of the gzip is still compressed, so we again look for the compression type. Using xxd, we see that the compression type is bzip2 (42 5A 68), so we rename the file to have the correct suffix: compressed_data.bz2. Next, we use bzip2 to decompress the file again: 'bzip2 -d compressed_data.bz2'. This reveals a gzip file (1F 8B prefix), so we use the same gzip command as above to decompress. If we use xxd to view this decompressed file, we see a data5.bin file name at the head of the file. We can extract a .bin file using the tar command to extract it after renaming the file to have the .tar suffix: 'tar -xf compressed_data.tar'. Using xxd to view data5.bin, this reveals another .bin file (data6.bin). So we repeat the previous step: 'tar -xf data5.bin'. Using xxd to read data6.bin, we see it is compressed with bzip2 (from the 42 5A 68 prefix), so we decompress using bzip2: 'bzip2 -d data6.bin'. This results in a file called datfa6.bin.out that has data8.bin in it (viewed with xdd), so we again use tar to extract the .bin: 'tar -xf data6.bin.out'. Viewing data8.bin with xxd we see it is compressed with gzip, so we rename the file to have the .gz suffix and decompress using gzip: 'gzip -d data8.gz'. Finally, this reveals a file called data8, which is fully decompressed, and contains the password. Last, I removed the tmp directory I created.

After doing it the above way looking at file signatures, I could have used the file command after each decompress step to tell me the file type instead. This would have been much simpler. 
	FO5dwFsc0cbaIiH0h8J2eUks2vdTDwAn

Important lesson: learn how to decompress files and determine which decompression type is used, and how to rename files with mv

Level 13:
The home directory contains the private RSA key for bandit14 stored in a file called sshkey.private. With this key we can login to bandit14 via ssh using the -i option to pass in the RSA private key. I used the following command to login to bandit14: 'ssh bandit14@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -i sshkey.private -p 2220'. Once logged in as bandit14, we have permission to view the password stored at /etc/bandit_pass/bandit14.
	MU4VWeTyJk8ROof1qqmcBPaLh7lDCPvS

Important lesson: learn how to login with ssh using a RSA private key + understand permissions

Level 14:
I used netcat (nc) to connect to port 30000 on localhost (as per the instructions): 'nc localhost 30000'. Then I sent over bandit14's password from the previous level (MU4VWeTyJk8ROof1qqmcBPaLh7lDCPvS), and received the password for the next level. 
	8xCjnmgoKbGLhHFAZlGE5Tmu4M2tKJQo

Important lesson: learn how to make a connection to a specific port

Level 15:
I use openssl s_client to make a connection to port 30001 on localhost: 'openssl s_client -connect localhost:30001'. Once the connection is open, I send the password for the current level (8xCjnmgoKbGLhHFAZlGE5Tmu4M2tKJQo) and receive the password for the next level in return. 
	kSkvUpMQ7lBYyCM4GBPvCvT1BfWRy0Dx

Important lesson: learn how to make an ssl connection to a specific port

Level 16:
I used nmap to find a list of open ports in the given range: 'nmap localhost -p 31000-32000'. I tried to use 'nmap -sV localhost -p 31000-32000' to find more detailed information about the open ports, but the scan didn't finish (maybe it would have if I was more patient), even when running on a single port. Because I didn't have more detailed info about the ports, I just tried them all until I found the correct one (the only one that doesn't echo). I made a connection to the port using ncat (openssl was giving a KEYUPDATE error that I couldn't solve): 'ncat --ssl localhost 31790'. I then gave the password for this level (kSkvUpMQ7lBYyCM4GBPvCvT1BfWRy0Dx) and received the RSA private key. I created a directory inside of tmp, and created a file to store the private key called private.key. I then used chmod to make the file not accessible by everyone (chmod 700) to fix an error that occurs when trying to ssh with the key available to everyone. Then, use the same ssh -i command as earlier to login as bandit17: 'ssh bandit17@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -i priv.key -p 2220'. Once logged in as bandit17, I have permission to view the password stored in /etc/bandit_pass/bandit17.
	EReVavePLFHtFlFsjn3hyzMlvSuSAcRD

Important lesson: learn how to find open ports

Level 17:
I used the diff command to return the only line that has been changed: 'diff passwords.new passwords.old'. The password is the one stored in passwords.new.
	x2gLTTjFwMOhQ8oWNbMN362QKxfRqGlO

Important lesson: learn how to use diff

Level 18:
We can run a command through ssh by placing the command at the end of the ssh command: 'ssh bandit18@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220 cat readme'. This allows us to view contents of the readme before we are logged off. (I also used ssh to execute an ls command so I knew what to cat.)
	cGWpMaKXVwDUNgPAVJbWYuGHVn9zl3j8

Important lesson: learn that ssh can be used to execute commands

Level 19:
To give a binary file suid permission: 'chmod u + s <file name>'. Suid allows the binary file to be executed as the owner of the file, not as the user executing it. If we do: 'ls -l' we can see that bandit20-do is owned by bandit20, but executable by bandit 19. This means that we can use the binary to access bandit20's password: './bandit20-do cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit20'.
	0qXahG8ZjOVMN9Ghs7iOWsCfZyXOUbYO
	
Important lesson: learn what suid is and how it works/lets us do

Level 20:
We can have nc listen on a port, and run a command when the port is connected to: 'echo -n <password from previous level> | nc -l <unused port> &'. The command that we pipe into nc (echo) will be executed when the port is connected to. The -n tag removes the newline character from the echo (needed for the password to match). The & makes nc continue to listen in the background so we can run more commands. Once nc is listening on a port, we can run the binary and provide it the port that nc is listening on. Once the binary connects to the port, nc will echo the password, the binary will read the echo'd password, and the binary will then provide us with the password for the next level.
	EeoULMCra2q0dSkYj561DX7s1CpBuOBt


Important lesson: how to use net cat to listen on a port and run a command when port is accessed

Level 21:
I looked in the specified directory and read the cronjob_bandit22 file. The cron file shows that a file is being referenced at location /usr/bin/cronjob_bandit22.sh. I read the contents of the cronjob_bandit22.sh file and saw that a file was being created at location /tmp/t7O6lds9S0RqQh9aMcz6ShpAoZKF7fgv, so I read the contents of the file, and found the password for level 22.
	tRae0UfB9v0UzbCdn9cY0gQnds9GF58Q

Important lesson: how to read cron config files

Level 22:
I did the same as above except I read the cronjob_bandit23 file and then read the referenced .sh file. This script is storing the password in a file where the name is the md5 hash of the string 'I am user bandit23'. I know bandit23 is the name referenced because the cron config file shows that bandit23 is the user who executes the script. The password is stored in /tmp/8ca319486bfbbc3663ea0fbe81326349. 
	0Zf11ioIjMVN551jX3CmStKLYqjk54Ga

Important lesson: understanding which user executes a cron task and bash scripting

Level 23:
Same as the previous 2 levels. There is a scheduled cron task executed by bandit24. In this level, bandit24 executes a script that executes and deletes scripts in /var/spool/$myname/foo where $myname = bandit24. We can then write a bash script that outputs bandit24's password to a file (since bandit24 is the user executing these scripts). To do this we need to place it in the correct directory, and wait for cron to have bandit24 execute the script. Then all we need to do is read the file that we had out script output the password to. I made the tmp folder and my script readable and executable by everyone (since bandit24 will need access): 'chmod 777 level23.sh ' & 'chmod 777 /tmp/tmp.DUAKUGeXp3'.

My bash script called level23.sh:
#!/bin/bash
cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit24 >> /tmp/tmp.DUAKUGeXp3/passwd
	* The file location is a tmp file with a randomly generated name. 

	gb8KRRCsshuZXI0tUuR6ypOFjiZbf3G8

Important lesson: writing a basic bash script & more practice reading cron and bash

Level 24:
I wrote a bash script, gen_pins.sh, to brute force all of the possible pins and store them in a text file:
#!/bin/bash

for i in {0000..9999}
do
	echo gb8KRRCsshuZXI0tUuR6ypOFjiZbf3G8 $i >> pins.txt
done

I needed to make the script executable: 'chmod +x gen_pins.sh'

I then sent each line of pins.txt to the specified nc port and recorded the response I got with that pin: 'cat pins.txt | nc localhost 30002 >> output.txt'. Next, I checked the output file for the password. For me, the last line in the output file contained the password, but I could have used grep and returned the only line that doesn't contain 'Wrong!' using the -v tag.
	iCi86ttT4KSNe1armKiwbQNmB3YJP3q4

Important lessons: more practice with bash scripting and connecting to ports via nc

Level 25:
I needed to look this one up. We need to make our terminal window small so that more cannot print out all of the text.txt file at once. The non-bash shell will print out the text.txt file, so by ssh-ing in to bandit26 ('ssh -i bandit26.sshkey bandit26@localhost -p 2220') with a small window, we get the special mode of more that we need to break out of the non-bash shell. In this mode, we have access to commands that let us break out of the shell. If I press 'v' it will open vim. In vim, :set shell=/bin/bash, then :shell. Now we have a regular shell, and we can get bandit26's password: 'cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit26'.
	s0773xxkk0MXfdqOfPRVr9L3jJBUOgCZ

Important lessons: thinking outside the box

Level 26:
From within the bandit26 shell we got in level 25, we can use the bandit27-do to run a command as bandit27, so we can run the following as bandit26 to get bandit27's password: './bandit27-do cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit27'.
	upsNCc7vzaRDx6oZC6GiR6ERwe1MowGB


Jeff's Questions:
	What was most interesting?
		* I enjoyed using nmap to scan the open ports.
		* I also enjoyed using nc to listen and echo the passwords in level 20.
		* I enjoyed the weirdness of level 25 with the window sizing thing. It was a fun ride.

	Where did you get stuck? 
		* I got stuck on level 11. Rotation is not something I ever thought about doing using terminal commands. I didn't read the instructions carefully, so I missed the Rot13 hint at first.
		* I got stuck on level 12 with the decompression. I had to look up how to find the correct file compression type. I also had to look up how to extract/decompress each file type, which took some time. I also messed around a bit with xxd before I realized the .bin files were present. I realized later that I could have just used the file command and have it tell me the compression type instead of needing to do it manually with xxd. 
		* I was completely lost on level 25. I never would have thought to make the terminal size small in order to break out of the shell.

	What was most frustrating?
		* Manually looking through a list of files because I didn't know about the find command (completely my fault for not reading the OTW instructions)
		* Not understanding why a command is not working how I think it should from the man page. E.g. I thought that uniq -u data.txt would work in level 8, but I actually needed to sort the data.txt lines before uniq -u would work properly
		* Level 12 was frustrating. Having repeated compression types seems a little unnecessary. I was also a little frustrated after the 2nd gzip. I didn't see the .bin file name for a bit, so I wasn't sure how to proceed. Again, this could have been avoided if I was using the file command.